---
Area: Web Development
Course: https://www.udemy.com/course/the-complete-web-development-bootcamp/
Section: "Section 2: Introduction to HTML"
tags:
  - web_development
  - programming
  - udemy
---
# Topic / Title: HTML Boilerplate

2022-11-08
23:07
# Notes
When creating HTML files there is a certain structure that should always be followed this is called "boilerplate" because it is identical code that will be in every HTML file and there is often extensions or plugins built into IDEs that will insert this for you.

#### Example Boilerplate
```html
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html>
	<head>
		<meta charset="utf-8">
		<title></title>
	</head>
	<body>
	</body>
</html>
```

HTML has had many versions throughout it's existence the boilerplate code shown is for HTML5 the latest version of HTML the \<!DOCTYPE html> tag is what tells the browser that this is a HTML5 file. Then the \<html> tags tell the browser that anything inbetween should be treated as HTML code the main HTML document consists of two sections the "head" defined with the \<head> tags and the "body" defined with the \<body> tags.

The head section consists of metadata such as what charset the website uses or the supported language. It also has the \<title> tag which controls what text will be shown in the browser tab.

The body section is what will be displayed on the page such as headings, paragraphs, images and links.
# Keywords/Questions
HTML Boilerplate
HTML5
# Summary
HTML Boilerplate is code that that will be included in every valid HTML5 file and tells the browser how to interpret the file. The boilerplate consists of two main sections the head which contains metadata and the body which contains what will be displayed on the webpage itself.